docs: fix Cloudflare Workers guide (SESSION KV, runtime vars) + add CLI path (#4697)
tinacms/tina.io: content/docs/tinacloud/deployment-options/cloudflare-workers.mdx

---
id: /docs/tinacloud/deployment-options/cloudflare-workers
title: Deploying to Cloudflare Workers
last_edited: '2026-07-10T00:00:00.000Z'
next: content/docs/tinacloud/deployment-options/alibaba-cloud.mdx
previous: content/docs/tinacloud/deployment-options/cloudflare-pages.mdx
---

Deploy to Cloudflare Workers when your site needs a server at request time: SSR, API routes, redirects, or the Astro starter's visual-editing route. Every push to your production branch rebuilds and redeploys.

<WarningCallout
  body={<>

>     **Astro users:** deploy to Workers, not [Cloudflare Pages](/docs/tinacloud/deployment-options/cloudflare-pages). The `@astrojs/cloudflare` adapter [no longer supports Pages](https://docs.astro.build/en/guides/integrations-guide/cloudflare/), and the starter's visual-editing route (`src/pages/tina-island/[name].ts`) is server-rendered, so a static Pages upload breaks click-to-edit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I'd remove the entire Warning Callout - the users are on Cloudflare Workers page already

  </>}
/>

> ## Astro (the `tina-astro-starter`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Astro
```

> Push your project to GitHub, then deploy it with Cloudflare's git-based builds or straight from your machine. Both use the config the starter already ships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### What the starter already sets up

> * `astro.config.mjs` picks the adapter from the host. Cloudflare's builds set `WORKERS_CI`, which selects `@astrojs/cloudflare`, so you never run `npx astro add cloudflare` or edit the config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `astro.config.mjs` detects the adapter from the host. Cloudflare's builds set `WORKERS_CI`, which selects `@astrojs/cloudflare`.
```

Reviewer 2: There are multiple adaptors from my knowledge. That wording is correct

Author: Agreed, kept it. Since the guide is now starter-independent, this wording (the host picking among the supported adapters) lives in the "Using the starter?" aside, because that host auto-detection is the starter's astro.config logic rather than stock Astro. The generic path just uses `npx astro add cloudflare`.

> * A root `wrangler.jsonc` turns on `nodejs_compat`, which the visual-editing route needs for `node:async_hooks`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A root `wrangler.jsonc` enables `nodejs_compat`, which the visual-editing route needs:
```

> ```jsonc

Reviewer: does the user need to see this codeblock?

Author: yep they need to create that file if they're not using the starter

}
```

> Adding TinaCMS to an existing Astro site? Run `npx astro add cloudflare`, then add a root `wrangler.jsonc` with `compatibility_flags: ["nodejs_compat"]` and a recent `compatibility_date`.

### Deploy with git-based builds

In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to **Workers & Pages** | **Create** | **Workers** | **Import a repository**, connect GitHub, and pick your repo. Set:

> * **Build command:** `pnpm run build` (the starter's script runs `tinacms build --content=local -c "astro build"`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Build command:** `pnpm run build`
```

* **Deploy command:** `npx wrangler deploy`

> There's no build-output field to set. A Worker gets its static assets from the adapter's generated config, not a dashboard directory, and Cloudflare authenticates the deploy for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Or deploy from your machine

Reviewer: Does the clanker mean the CLI?

```suggestion
### Or deploy via the CloudFlare CLI 
```

> Put your TinaCloud credentials in a local `.env` (see below), then build and deploy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Put your TinaCloud credentials in a local `.env`, then build and deploy:
```

```sh
DEPLOY_ADAPTER=cloudflare pnpm run build
npx wrangler deploy
```

`DEPLOY_ADAPTER=cloudflare` is the part people miss. Cloudflare's builds set `WORKERS_CI` so the adapter is chosen for you, but on your own machine nothing sets it and the build falls back to a Node server Wrangler can't deploy.

### Environment variables

`tinacms build` needs your TinaCloud credentials at build time. Add them wherever you build: for git-based builds, under the Worker's **Settings** | **Build** | **Variables and Secrets**; for a CLI deploy, in your local `.env`. Grab both credentials from your [TinaCloud project](https://app.tina.io).

> * `PUBLIC_TINA_CLIENT_ID` is your client ID. Astro uses the `PUBLIC_` prefix, not Next.js's `NEXT_PUBLIC_`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `PUBLIC_TINA_CLIENT_ID` is your client ID. 
```

* `TINA_TOKEN` is a content token.

> * `SITE_URL` is your production URL, e.g. `https://your-worker.your-account.workers.dev`. Workers injects no deploy URL, so without it your sitemap, RSS, and OpenGraph tags fall back to `localhost`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `SITE_URL` is your production URL, e.g. `https://your-worker.your-account.workers.dev`. 
```

Reviewer 2: That's useful context, I wouldn't remove it

Author: Kept it. Left the SITE_URL rationale in as-is.

Author: Kept it, left the SITE_URL rationale in as-is.

These are build-time only. `tinacms build` bakes the client ID and token into the generated client, so there's nothing to add again as a runtime variable.

> ### Pin the SESSION KV namespace

Reviewer: As a user reading these docs, a. what is it, and b. why do i need to pin it?
